# Do wealthier people share a roof with more or less people? A study of household size and income in the city of Barcelona
Data analysis and visualization project relating household size and income in the city of Barcelona

How is wealth related to the number of people living in a household? On one hand, we could expect such relationship to be positive. After all, richer people can afford having more children. But we also have reasons to expect the opposite trend. For one, in developed countries it's often people with less resources that have more children. This could be due to different values, or to less knowledge about or access to birth control methods. Moreover, the economically disadvantaged are usually forced to live with their extended family. Whatever the ultimate reasons may be, it looks like the relationship between income and household size could not be unidirectional. To dig deeper into this issue, I explored data from the city of Barcelona.

The datasets I worked with can be found on the city's [Open Data Portal](https://opendata-ajuntament.barcelona.cat/en). In particular, I used a dataset including the [average tax revenue per person](https://opendata-ajuntament.barcelona.cat/data/en/dataset/renda-tributaria-per-persona-atlas-distribucio/resource/7e2ab9ed-68ea-43ea-abb0-afbb620ee09e), and another containing the [Number of households in Barcelona aggregated by the number of people in the household](https://opendata-ajuntament.barcelona.cat/data/en/dataset/pad_dom_mdbas_n-persones/resource/66985e32-b3c1-4f3e-a987-f880a4c509d3). In both cases I used the yearly data for 2021, as it was most recent update both datasets shared.
